# SoundHealth
Communication should not be limited to a specific language, but simple sound waves can tell us much about our patients condition, and environment.

Excessive noise pollution is something that we can all agree is not only an annoyance but is not good for our psychological wellbeing.  In the neonatal intensive care unit, not only is it an annoyance, but it is a serious threat to their physiological wellbeing also.  “Newborns exposed to sound above 45 decibels may experience increase in blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate; decreased oxygen saturation; and increased caloric consumption” (Thakur, Batra, & Gupta, 2016).  
As we continue to build newer hospitals and update current buildings, we are making the transition from wards to private rooms with more soundproof walls.  Glass door access allow for visualization of the patients, but reduction of ambient noise from loud nurse’s stations.  Sound can be dampened from the nurse’s stations, but also from the patient’s rooms, often making it unclear of the noise that may be going on in the patient’s rooms which can be detrimental to the patient.  IV pump alarms, noisy guests, or even a distressed infant who may be crying.  
The problem we face is that we need a way to become more aware of noise levels within the private rooms, but to allow for privacy of conversations within the room to maintain HIPPA compliance.  
What I am proposing that we create is an application which would run from a Microsoft Surface Tablet acting like a master device.  We would be using multiple Bluetooth devices to transmit on difference channels sound decibel readings which would be constantly monitoring and recording.  These readings will be displayed in a visual sense from the tablet at the nurse’s station, so that when adverse noises are happening, the screen would display a notification alerting the team of the need to investigate.  Ideally, we could cut down on adverse noise time of exposure and provide the patient with a better environment to heal and grow.  
Why Bluetooth devices? The reason that I chose Bluetooth devices is that each device comes with a unique address that “should not” interfere with current devices running within the unit.  Radio waves might interfere with some older medical devices.
Challenges:  Hardware for this hackathon will be difficult to test and demo.  We will need some way to test out this idea.  I am willing to purchase some Bluetooth microphones if needed to put them in different rooms for the demo.  Or we could even use some older cell phones as they have Bluetooth connectivity.  I have other ideas on this we can discuss later.  
How many devices can we connect simultaneously to monitor sound decibels? Ideally we would need up to 12 per nurses station.

Thakur, N., Batra, P., & Gupta, P. (2016). Noise as a Health Hazard for Children: Time to Make a Noise about it. Retrieved October 30, 2020, from https://indianpediatrics.net/feb2016/feb-111-114.htm
